XMLM-16: mule-xml-module 1.3.0 (#1334)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: xml/1.3/modules/ROOT/pages/xml-xpath.adoc

= Using XPath with the XML Module - Mule 4
:page-aliases: connectors::xml/xml-xpath.adoc

The `<xml-module:xpath-extract>` operation supports the evaluation of XPath expressions.

Because XPath expressions can match any number of individual elements, this operation returns a list of Strings. If no element matches the expression, the operation returns an empty list.

XPath expressions are also namespace-aware, so this operation allows namespace mappings. These mappings are merged with any `namespaces` defined in the referenced `namespace-directory`, meaning that the evaluation combines both sets of namespace mappings.

> Note that though MuleSoft supports the XPath standard, DataWeave is capable of achieving the same use cases and is the recommended tool for extracting and transforming XML documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although MuleSoft supports the XPath standard, DataWeave is capable of achieving the same use cases and is the recommended tool for extracting and transforming XML documents.
```

        <PERSONA>CASSIO, his lieutenant.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>IAGO, his ancient.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>RODERIGO, a Venetian gentleman.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>MONTANO, Othello's predecessor in the government of Cyprus.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>Clown, servant to Othello. </PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>DESDEMONA, daughter to Brabantio and wife to Othello.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>EMILIA, wife to Iago.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>BIANCA, mistress to Cassio.</PERSONA>
        <PERSONA>Sailor, Messenger, Herald, Officers, Gentlemen, Musicians, and Attendants.</PERSONA>
    </PERSONAE>

    <SCNDESCR>SCENE  Venice: a Sea-port in Cyprus.</SCNDESCR>
    <PLAYSUBT>OTHELLO</PLAYSUBT>
    <ACT><TITLE>ACT I</TITLE>
    <SCENE><TITLE>SCENE I.  Venice. A street.</TITLE>
    <STAGEDIR>Enter RODERIGO and IAGO</STAGEDIR>
    <SPEECH>
        <SPEAKER>RODERIGO</SPEAKER>
        <LINE>Tush! never tell me; I take it much unkindly</LINE>
        <LINE>That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse</LINE>
        <LINE>As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.</LINE>
    </SPEECH>

.....
<!-- A LOT MORE CONTENT -->
----

[[othello_lines]]

> Now assume that you have the text of the entire play in the format shown above. You can use this script to extract all the lines that contain the word `handkerchief`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume that you have the text of the entire play in the format shown above. You can use this script to extract all lines that contain the word `handkerchief`:
```
